In this lecture, we will discuss
the Naive Bayes classifier.
After this video, you will be able
to discuss how a Naive Bayes model
works fro classification,
define the components of Bayes' Rule and
explain what the naive
means in Naive Bayes.
A Naive Bayes classification model uses a
probabilistic approach to classification.
What this means is that the relationships
between the input features and
the class is expressed as probabilities.
So given the input features for
a sample, the probability for
each class is estimated.
The class with the highest probability
then, determines the label for the sample.
In addition to using a probabilistic
framework for classification,
the Naive Bayes classifier also uses
what is known as Bayes' theorem.
The application of Bayes' theorem makes
estimating the probabilities easier.
In addition, Naive Bayes assumes that
the input features are statistically
independent of one another.
This means that, for a given class,
the value of one feature does not
affect the value of any other feature.
This independence assumption is
an oversimplified one that does not always
hold true, and so
is considered a naive assumption.
The naive independence assumption and
the use of Bayes theorem gives this
classification model its name.
We will cover Bayes theorem and
the independence assumption in
more detail in this lecture.
Before we look at naive
Bayes in more detail,
let's first start with some
background on probability.
Probability is the measure
of how likely an event is,
the probability of an event A occurring
is denoted P and in parenthesis A.
It is calculated by dividing
the number of ways event A can occur,
by the total number of possible outcomes.
For example, what is the probability
of rolling a die and getting six?
When you roll a die you can get
a number from one to six, so
the number of possible outcomes is six.
The number of ways fro getting six is one,
since the way you can get six is if
the die shows six when it stops rolling.
That means that the probability of getting
the number six when you roll a die
is one over six.
This is denoted p of six and
that's equal to one over six and
is read as probability
of six is one over six.
There's also a joint probability,
the joint probability specifies
the probability of event A and
event B occurring together.
In this diagram, the probability of event
A occurring is shown as the blue circle
and the probability of event B
occurring is shown as the green circle.
Then the joint probability,
that is the probability of A and
B occurring together is shown as
the overlap of these two circles.
The joint probability of A and
B is denoted,
P(A,B) for
an example of joint probability,
let's consider rolling 2 dice together.
What is the probability in getting
2 sixes or a six from each die.
If the two events are independent, then
the joint probability is simply the result
of multiplying the probabilities
of the individual events together.
In this case then, we have
the probability of rolling a six for
each die is one over six so
the joint probability is one over 36,
this leads us to conditional probability.
The conditional probability is
the probability of event A occurring
Given that event B has already occurred.
Another way to say this is that
event A is conditioned on event B.
The conditional probability is
the noted P and in parentheses A,
vertical line B and is read as,
probability of A Given B.
This diagram gives a graphical
definition of conditional probability.
As before, the blue circle is
the probability of event A occurring,
the green circle is the probability
of event B occurring.
The overlap is a joint
probability of A and B.
The conditional probability,
P(A given B) then is
calculated as the join probability
divided by the probability of B.
The conditional probability is
an important concept in classification
as we will see later.
It provides the means to specify
the probability of a class label,
given the input values.
The relationship between conditional
probabilities P of B given A and
P of A given B can be expressed
through Bayes' Theorem.
This theorem is named after a reverend
named Thomas Bayes who lived in the 1700s.
It is a way to look at how the probability
of a hypothesis is affected by
new evidence gathered from data.
Bayes' theorem expresses the relationship
between probability of B
given A and probability of A given
B as shown in this equation.
Bayes' Theorem is also known
as Bayes' Rule or Bayes' Law.
Now that we have reviewed some
background on probability
let's see how all this relates
to the classification problem.
With the probabilistic framework the
classification task is defined as follows.
Capital X is the set of values for
the input features in the sample,
given a sample with features X,
predict the corresponding class C.
Another way to state this is,
what is the class label associated with
the feature vector X or how should
the feature vector x be classified?
To find the class label C we need to
calculate the conditional probability of
class C, given X for all classes and
select a class with
the highest probability.
So for classification,
we want to find the value of C that
maximizes the probability of C given X.
The problem is that it is difficult
to estimate this probability,
because we would need to enumerate every
possible combination of feature values and
to know the conditional probability.
For each class given every
possible feature combination and
here is where Bayes'
theorem comes into play.
The classification problem can be
reformulated using Bayes' theorem
to simplify the classification problem.
Specifically, using Bayes' theorem, the
probability of c given x, can be expressed
using other probability quantities,
which can be estimated from the data.
Here's Bayes' theorem again, but
some additional terms defined.
Probability of C I X is referred to
as the posterior probability since
it is the probability of the class label
being C after observing input features X.
Probability of X given
C is the probability of
observing input features X given
that c is the class label.
This is the class conditional probability
since it is conditioned on the class.
Probability of c is the probability
of the class label being C,
this is the probability of each class
prior to observing any input data.
And so
is referred to as the prior probability.
The probability of X is the probability
of observing input features X
regardless of what the class label is.
So for classification we want
to calculate the posterior
probability P(C | X) for each class C.
From Bayes' theorem P(C | X) is related to
the P(X | C) P(C And probability of X.
Probability of X does not depend
on the class C, therefore,
it is a constant value, given the input X.
Since it the same value for
all classes, the probability
of X can be removed from the calculation
of probability of C, given X.
What's left then are probability of
X given C and the probability of C.
So estimating the probability
of C given X boils down to
estimating the probability of X
given C and probability of C.
The nice thing is that
probability of X given C and
probability of C can be
estimated from the data.
So now we have a way to calculate probably
of C given X which is what we need for
classification.
To the estimate the probability of C
which is the probability of the class
of C before observing any input data.
We simply calculate the fraction
of samples with that class label
C in the training data.
For this example, there are four samples
labeled as green circles out of 10
samples, so probability of green
circle is 4 out of 10, or 0.4.
Similarly, the fraction of samples labeled
as red triangles is 6 out of 10, or 0.6.
So estimating the prior
probabilities is a simple count
of number of samples with each class label
divided by the total number of
samples in the training data center.
In estimating probability of X
given C which is the probability
of observing feature factor
X given that the class is C,
we can use the independent
assumption to simplify the problem.
The Independence Assumption of
the Naive Bayes classifier assumes
that each feature X sub I
in the featured vector X
is conditionally independent of every
other feature, given the class C.
This means that we only need to
estimate the probability of X
sub i given C, instead of having to
estimate the probability of
the entire feature X given C.
For every combination of values for
the features in X then we would simply
multiply these individual probabilities
together to get the probability
of the entire feature vector X.
Given the class C to estimate
the probability of X sub I,
given C, we count up the number
of times a particular input
value is observed for
the class c in the training data.
For example, the number of times that we
see the value of yes for the future home
owner, when the class label is no it's
three as indicated by the green arrows.
This is divided by the number of samples
with no as the class label which is seven.
This fraction, three out of seven,
is the probability that home owner
is Yes given that the class is No.
Similarly, the samples with
the value of Single for
the feature Marital Status when it crosses
Yes are indicated by the red arrows.
And the probability that
Marital Status is Single,
given that the class label
is Yes is 2/3 or 0.67.
Some things to know about the Naive Bayes
classification model are it is a fast and
simple algorithm.
The algorithm boils down to calculating
counts for probabilities and
performing some multiplication, so
it is very simple to implement.
And the probabilities that are needed
can be calculated with a single
scan of the data set and
stored in a table.
Either two processing of the data
is not necessary as with many other
machine learning algorithms.
So model building and
testing of both task, it scales well.
Due today independent assumption,
the probability for
each feature can be
independently estimated.
These means that featured probability
is can be calculated in parallel,
this also means that the data set size
does not have to grow exponentially
with a number of features.
This avoids the many problems associated
with the curse of dimensionality,
this also means that you do not need
a lot of data to build the model.
The number of parameters scales
linearly with the number of features.
The Independence assumption does
not hold true in many cases.
In practice however, the Naive Bayes
classifier still tends to perform very
well this is because even
though Naive Bayes may
not provide good estimates of
the correct class probabilities.
As long as the correct class is
more probable than any other class,
the correct classification
results will be reached.
The independence assumption also prevents
the naive base classifier to model
interactions between features which
limits its classification power.
The increased risk of smoking in a history
of cancer would not be captured,
for example.
The Naive Bays classifier has been
applied to many real world problems
including spam filtering, document
classification, and sentiment analysis.
To summarize, the Naive Bayes classifier
uses a probabilistic framework for
classification.
It applies Bayes Theorem and
the Feature Independence Assumption,
to simplify the problem of estimating
probabilities for the classification task.